README for app-deployer, app-checker and app-qps-tester (#182)
litmuschaos/test-tools: custom/workflow-helper/app-deployer/README.md

## About App-Deployer
App-Deployer has been used for the installation of applications.

At first, the user is asked to give the namespace, typeName, operation, app, scope, and timeout.

<table>
  <tr>
    <th> Argument/Flag </th>
    <th> Description </th>
    <th> Example </th>
    <th> Domain </th>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td> -namespace </td>
    <td> Namespace of the application </td>
    <td> -namespace="sock-shop" </td>
    <td> sock-shop, loadtest, bank </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td> -typeName </td>
    <td> Type of application </br>
        weak scenario: It will create a single replica and Deployments for all</br> 
        resilient scenario: It will create two replicas of Statefulsets for databases </br> 
        and two replicas of Deployments for others.
    </td>
    <td> -typeName="resilient"</td>
    <td> resilient, weak</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td> -timeout </td>
    <td> Time after which it will fail the app-deployer if application is not ready </td>
    <td> -timeout="400" </td>

>     <td> timeout can be any </td>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    <td> any integer </td>
```

It has been used parallelly with a chaos engine, which loads against the catalog front-end service.
In the manifest, it is written as:
```
- name: install-application
      container:
        image: litmuschaos/litmus-app-deployer:latest
        args: ["-namespace=loadtest"] 
```

## Now let’s see how the app-deployer works in the workflow:
At first, the installation of App-Deployer(application installation) is performed.
```
- name: install-application
      container:
        image: litmuschaos/litmus-app-deployer:latest
        args: ["-namespace=sock-shop","-typeName=resilient","-operation=apply","-timeout=400", "-app=sock-shop","-scope=cluster"] 
```
 ##### Note: 
  - by default it will be resilient for weak provide type flagName as resilient(-typeName=weak)
  - To delete application or loadtest correspondence operation need to pass ```-operation=delete```

## Application details
As of now Sock-shop and Potato-Head application have been added in a pre-defined workflow.
Where weak and resilient cases are present.

### In a weak scenario, 

> only one replica of the pod is present. After chaos injection, it will be down, and therefore accessibility will not be there, and eventually, it will fail due to front-end access.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
only one replica of the pod is present. After chaos injection, it will be down, and therefore accessibility will not be there, and eventually, it will fail due to lack of front-end access.
```

### In a resilient scenario, 

> two replicas of pods are present. After chaos injection, one will be down. Therefore one pod is still up for accessibility and will still be there to pass due to front-end access.

Reviewer 2: Same here

Author: > @oumkale can you please add some notes to explain differences b/w the weak and resilient versions of apps?

I have updated it please take a look and let me know anything else have to add?

## About Git-App-Deployer
Git-App-Deployer has been used for the installation of applications.

At first, the user is asked to give the namespace, typeName, operation, app, scope, and timeout.
 
#### For Namespace
Application namespace user has to pass:
```-namespace=<application>```

#### For Load-Test
```-typeName=loadtest```

> #### For TypeName

Reviewer: Can we use the table here?

Reviewer 2: @oumkale PTAL on this

## About App-Deployer
App-Deployer has been used for the installation of applications.

At first, the user is asked to give the namespace, typeName, operation, app, scope, and timeout.

> <table>
>   <tr>
>     <th> Environment </th>
>     <th> Description </th>
>     <th> Example </th>
>   </tr>
>   <tr>
>     <td> -namespace=<"app-namespace"> </td>
>     <td> Application namespace has to pass </td>
>     <td> -namespace="sock-shop" </td>
>   </tr>
>   <tr>
>     <td> -typeName=<"scenario"> </td>
>     <td> It can be weak/resilient application </br>
>      Note: </br>
>      1. In a weak scenario, it will create a single replica and Deployments for all. </br> 
>      2. In a resilient scenario, it will create two replicas of pods with Statefulsets for databases and Deployments for others. </td>
>      <td> -typeName="resilient"</td>
>   </tr>
>   <tr>
>     <td> -timeout=<"timeout"> </td>
>     <td> Timeout is used for the termination of application </td>
>     <td> -timeout="400" </td>
>   </tr>
>   <tr>
>     <td> -operation=<"operation"> </td>
>     <td> Operation will be Kubernetes CRUD operations 
>          on these resources.
>     </td>
>     <td> -operation="apply" </td>
>   </tr>
>   </tr>
>     <td> -app=<"app-name"> </td>
>     <td> App is the name of the application </td>
>     <td> -app="sock-shop" </td>
>   </tr>
>     <td> -scope=<"scope"> </td>
>     <td> Scope of application </td>
>     <td> -scope="cluster" </td>
>   </tr>
> </table>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<table>
  <tr>
    <th> Flag </th>
    <th> Description </th>
    <th> Example </th>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td> -namespace </td>
    <td> Namespace of the application </td>
    <td> -namespace="sock-shop" </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td> -typeName </td>
    <td> Type of application </br>
     Note: </br>
     1. In a weak scenario, it will create a single replica and Deployments for all</br> 
     2. In a resilient scenario, it will create two replicas of Statefulsets for databases and two replicas of Deployments for others.</td>
     <td> -typeName="resilient"</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td> -timeout </td>
    <td> Time after which it will fail the app-deployer if application is not ready </td>
    <td> -timeout="400" </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td> -operation</td>
    <td> Operation will be Kubernetes CRUD operations 
         on these resources. It supports create,delete, and apply operations.
    </td>
    <td> -operation="apply" </td>
  </tr>
  </tr>
    <td> -app </td>
    <td> Name of the application </td>
    <td> -app="sock-shop" </td>
  </tr>
    <td> -scope </td>
    <td> Scope of application. It supports cluster and namespace modes </td>
    <td> -scope="cluster" </td>
  </tr>
</table>
```

## About Git-App-Deployer
Git-App-Deployer has been used for the installation of applications.

At first, the user is asked to give the namespace, typeName, operation, app, scope, and timeout.

<table>
  <tr>
    <th> Environment </th>
    <th> Description </th>
    <th> Example </th>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td> -namespace=<"app-namespace"> </td>
    <td> Application namespace has to pass </td>
    <td> -namespace="sock-shop" </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td> -typeName=<"scenario"> </td>

>     <td> It can be weak/resilient in apllication </br>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    <td> It can be weak/resilient application </br>
```

     Note: </br>
     1. In a weak scenario, it will create a single replica and Deployments for all. </br> 
     2. In a resilient scenario, it will create two replicas of pods with Statefulsets for databases and Deployments for others. </td>

>      <td> -typeName="resilent"</td>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
     <td> -typeName="resilient"</td>
```

  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td> -timeout=<"timeout"> </td>
    <td> Timeout is used for the termination of application </td>
    <td> -timeout="400" </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td> -operation=<"operation"> </td>
    <td> Operation will be Kubernetes CRUD operations 
         on these resources.
    </td>
    <td> -operation="apply" </td>
  </tr>
  </tr>
    <td> -app=<"app-name"> </td>

>     <td> App is the name of application, which will be used as labels </td>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    <td> App is the name of the application</td>
```

    <td> -app="sock-shop" </td>
  </tr>
    <td> -scope=<"scope"> </td>

>     <td> Scope for an application </td>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    <td> Scope of application </td>
```

    <td> -scope="cluster" </td>
  </tr>
</table>
</br>

It creates a namespace and then installs the required application based on the given -namespace and -typeName.

> If namespace already exists, then it shows log and starts installing the application.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If namespace already exists then it will skip the namespace creation and starts installing the application.
```

`[Status]: Namespace already exists!`

## Load-Test:
The load test packages a test script in a container for Locust that simulates user traffic to the application. Please run it against the front-end service. The address and port of the frontend will be different and depend on which platform you've deployed to. See the notes for each deployment.
It has been used parallelly with a chaos engine, which loads against the catalog front-end service.
In the manifest, it is written as:
```
- name: install-application
      container:
        image: litmuschaos/litmus-app-deployer:latest
        args: ["-namespace=loadtest"] 
```

## Now let’s see how the app-deployer works in the workflow:
At first, the installation of App-Deployer(application installation) is performed.
```
- name: install-application
      container:
        image: litmuschaos/litmus-app-deployer:latest
        args: ["-namespace=sock-shop","-typeName=resilient","-operation=apply","-timeout=400", "-app=sock-shop","-scope=cluster"] 
```
 ##### Note: 

>   - by default it will be resilient for weak provide type flagName as resilient(-typeName=weak)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - by default, it will be resilient. For weak provide typeName flag as weak i.e,(-typeName=weak)
```

>   - To delete application or loadtest correspondence operation need to pass ```-operation=delete```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - To delete application or loadtest corresponding operation need to pass `-operation=delete`
```

## Application details

> As of now Sock-shop and Potato-Head application have been added in a pre-defined workflow.
> Where weak and resilient cases are present.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As of now Sock-shop and Potato-Head applications have been added in pre-defined workflows for the weak and resilient cases.
```

### In a weak scenario, 
All the services of the application are deployments, in both sock-shop and podtato-head. 

> Single replica for every service. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Single replica for every deployment. 
```

#### For Databases:
MongoDB is run as a single replica deployment.
MySQL DB is hosted on ephemeral storage with a single replica.

> Note: Only one replica of the pod is present. After chaos injection, it will be down, and therefore accessibility will not be there, and eventually, it will fail due to lack of resources availability.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Note: Only one replica of the deployment is present. After chaos injection, it will be down, and therefore service is unaccessible and eventually, it will fail due to resources unavailability.
```

### In a resilient scenario, 

> All the databases(MongoDB and MySQL) services of the application are statefulsets and other services are deployments in sock-shop, whereas deployments for podtato-head. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Sock-shop: All the databases(MongoDB and MySQL) are statefulsets and the rest of services are deployments.
Podtato-head: All services are deployments. 
```

> For each service two replicas are present. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For each services(deployment/statefulset) two replicas are present. 
```

#### For Databases:
MongoDB multi-replica statefulset with persistent volumes. 
MySQL DB is Persistent, which can be dynamically extensible.

> Note: Two replicas of pods are present. After chaos injection, one will be down. Therefore one pod is still up and accessibility. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Note: Two replicas of all the applications are present. After chaos injection, one pod will be down. Therefore one pod is still up and accessible.  
```
